# G++ Language Interpreter

This repository contains the implementation of a G++ language syntax analyzer and interpreter for the Programming Languages course (Fall 2023) at Gebze Technical University.

## Project Overview

The goal of this project is to implement a syntax analyzer and interpreter for the G++ language, which is designed for teaching purposes. G++ has a Lisp-like syntax, is interpreted, imperative (non-object-oriented), and statically scoped with static binding.

## File Structure

- gpp_interpreter.y: Yacc file for syntax analysis using the Bison tool.
- gpp_interpreter.c: Corresponding C file generated by Bison.
- gpp_interpreter.lisp: Lisp implementation of the G++ interpreter.
- report.pdf: Documentation file explaining unresolved features, expression evaluation strategy, and scope.

## Usage

### G++ Interpreter using Flex and Yacc

1. Ensure you have Flex and Yacc installed.
2. Compile the lexer and syntax analyzer:

```bash
flex gpp_lexer.l
bison -d gpp_interpreter.y
gcc gpp_lexer.c gpp_interpreter.c -o gpp_interpreter -lfl -ly
```
and run interpreter

```
./gpp_interpreter
```

### G++ Interpreter in Lisp

1. Ensure you have a Common Lisp interpreter installed (e.g., SBCL or clisp).
2. Start the interpreter

```bash
clisp gpp_interpreter.lisp
```

## Syntax and Features

- Keywords: and, or, not, equal, less, nil, list, append, concat, set, def, for, if, exit, load, display, true, false.
- Operators: +, -, /, *, (, ), ,
- Comment: Line or part of the line starting with ;;
- Literals: Unsigned fractions (e.g., 123b12), Identifiers, and Function Definitions.

## Unspecified Features

There are unspecified features such as expression evaluation strategy and scope. These have been defined as needed, along with resolutions to conflicts in the given definitions. Refer to the documentation.pdf file for details.

If you have any further information or questions about this sample, please feel free to get in touch. Good coding! 🚀